---
layout: post
title:  "Ecadia"
author: ali-bobby
categories: [ polychrome, gods ]
image: assets/images/gods/ecadia-splash.png
summary: "Mother to All"
---

Ecadia appears as a matronly woman in her late forties. She has alabaster skin, cut with deep wrinkles. She wears robes of blue and white. She is the goddess of seas, rain, storms, water, mothers, tradition and social order. Ecadia shields the Clerics of all temples and cults.

Goddess of motherhood, the home, feminine virtue, and the sea. She is associated with the power of rain and storms. In Alamar, she is worshipped as an embodiment of the community and state. She is portrayed in a human form as a dignified middle aged woman wearing a light blue gown. Her hair is tied up in a conservative style, usually under a crown of coral. She rides a whale in golden howdy. Her symbol is a rounded triskelion, representing the sea. She is usually attended by Ecleiads, her loyal undersea daughters.

Her sacred animal is the Oyster; the shell represents the walls of home which protect the pearl within. The pearl corresponds to the treasures of children and family. She is also associated with dolphins, red sea bloom, and lightning bolts are sacred to her.

She is associated with motherhood generally, and closely with pregnancy and child birth. Birth fluids and milk are considered physical manifestations of Ecadia. Her sacred plant is the Sea Bloom, a variety of kelp with bright red flower that blooms upon the surface of the water. Some legends say the goddess keeps Thunderwave as her pet.

Spheres
: Paths, Stars, Prophecy, Fathers, Luck, Wind, Light, Moons

Avatar
: A figure shrouded in robes, eyes shining from the blackness within the robe

Holy Symbol
: An amulet that opens to reveal a medium-sized lavender-colored mirror

Sacred Text
: the Finality

Head Temple
: the Oracle of the Sands

