---
layout: post
title:  "Agent"
author: ali-bobby
categories: [ polychrome, classes ]
image: assets/images/classes/agent-splash.png
summary: "Particularly Skilled"
---



Agents represent those adventurers whose expertise was gained through extensive training and education, usually on behalf of a political, cultural or economic faction. On Oda there many factions secretly competing for money, power and influence. Kingdoms, fraternal lodges, commercial cartels and criminal syndicates all train agents with skills intended to further their purposes. Occasionally, agents go rogue and work according to their own will.

# Agent Level Advancement Table

| Level | Proficiency Bonus | Abilities                             |
|:-----:|:-----------------:|---------------------------------------|
|1      |	+2                | Faction and Spellcasting              |
|2      |	+2                | Field Dressing and Jack of All Trades |
|3      |	+2                | Faction Feature                       |
|4      |	+2                | Ability Score Improvement             |
|5      |	+3                |                                       |
|6      |	+3                | Faction Feature                       |
|7      |	+3                |                                       |
|8      |	+3                | Ability Score Improvement             |
|9      |	+4                |                                       |
|10     |	+4                | Magical Secrets                       |
|11     |	+4                |                                       |
|12     |	+4                | Ability Score Improvement             |
|13     |	+5                |                                       |
|14     |	+5                | Faction Feature and Magical Secrets   |
|15     |	+5                |                                       |
|16     |	+5                | Ability Score Improvement             |
|17     |	+6                |                                       |
|18     |	+6                | Magical Secrets                       |
|19     |	+6                | Ability Score Improvement             |
|20     |	+6                | Faction Feature                       |

# Hit Dice

Hit Die
: D8 per Agent Level

Hit Points at 1st Level
: 8 + your Constitution modifier

Hit Points at Higher Levels
: D8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per barbarian level after 1st

# Proficiencies

Saving Throws
: Intelligence and Dexterity.

Skills
: Choose any 3.

Armor
: Light.

Weapons
: Simple, Smallsword, and Wheellock Pistol.

Tools
: Choose one from Disguise Kit and Thieves' Tools.

# Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
- Buff Coat
- Dagger
- Rapier or Wheellock Pistol
- Diplomat's Pack or Entertainer's Pack
- Thieves' Tools or Disguise Kit

# Spellcasting
Agents are trained to untangle and reshape the fabric of reality through skills and discipline. Your Spells are part of your vast repertoire, magic that you can tune to different situations. Agents cast spells from the Bard spell list. See chapter 10 for the general rules of spellcasting and chapter 11 for the bard spell list.

## Spell Slots by Level

| Level | Cantrips Known | Spells Known | 1st | 2nd | 3rd | 4th | 5th | 6th | 7th | 8th | 9th |
|:-----:|:--------------:|:------------:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|  1st  |       2        |      4       |  2  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  2nd  |       2        |      5       |  3  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  3rd  |       2        |      6       |  4  |  2  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  4th  |       3        |      7       |  4  |  3  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  5th  |       3        |      8       |  4  |  3  |  2  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  6th  |       3        |      9       |  4  |  3  |  3  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  7th  |       3        |      10      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  1  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  8th  |       3        |      11      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
|  9th  |       3        |      12      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  1  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
| 10th  |       4        |      14      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  —  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
| 11th  |       4        |      15      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
| 12th  |       4        |      15      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  —  |  —  |  —  |
| 13th  |       4        |      16      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  1  |  —  |  —  |
| 14th  |       4        |      18      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  1  |  —  |  —  |
| 15th  |       4        |      19      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  —  |
| 16th  |       4        |      19      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  —  |
| 17th  |       4        |      20      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  1  |
| 18th  |       4        |      22      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  1  |
| 19th  |       4        |      22      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  1  |  1  |
| 20th  |       4        |      22      |  4  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  3  |  2  |  2  |  1  |  1  |

Cantrips
: You know two Cantrips of your choice from the bard spell list. You learn additional bard Cantrips of your choice at higher levels, learning a 3rd cantrip at 4th level and a 4th at 10th level.

Spell Slots
: The Agent table shows how many Spell Slots you have to cast your Spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these Spells, you must expend a slot of the spell’s level or higher. You regain all expended Spell Slots when you finish a Long Rest.
For example, if you know the 1st-level spell Cure Wounds and have a 1st-level and a 2nd-level spell slot available, you can cast Cure Wounds using either slot.

Spells Known of 1st Level and Higher
: You know four 1st-level Spells of your choice from the bard spell list.
: You learn an additional bard spell of your choice at each level except 12th, 16th, 19th, and 20th. Each of these Spells must be of a level for which you have Spell Slots. For instance, when you reach 3rd level in this class, you can learn one new spell of 1st or 2nd level.
: Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the bard Spells you know and replace it with another spell from the bard spell list, which also must be of a level for which you have Spell Slots.

Spellcasting Ability
: Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your bard Spells. Your magic comes from the focused discipline and technical refinement of your training. You use your Intelligence whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when Setting the saving throw DC for a bard spell you cast and when Making an Attack roll with one.

Spell save DC
: 8 + Proficiency bonus + Intelligence modifier

Spell Attack modifier
: Proficiency bonus + Intelligence modifier

Ritual Casting
: You can cast any bard spell you know as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag.

Spellcasting Focus
: You can use your membership emblem (see “Equipment”) as a spellcasting focus for your bard Spells.

# Abilities

Faction
: At level one, an agent joins a faction. You are awarded an emblem, signifying your membership to the organization, and your rank within it. This emblem is your spell casting focus.


Field Dressing
: Beginning at 2nd level, you can use your medical training to help revitalize your wounded allies during a Short Rest. If you or any friendly creatures within 30 feet regain hit points by spending Hit Dice at the end of the Short Rest, each of those creatures regains an extra 1d6 hit points.
The extra hit points increase when you reach certain levels in this class: to 1d8 at 9th level, to 1d10 at 13th level, and to 1d12 at 17th level.

Jack of All Trades
: Starting at 2nd level, you can add half your proficiency bonus, rounded down, to any ability check you make that doesn’t already include your proficiency bonus.

Magical Secrets
: By 10th level, you have plundered magical knowledge from a wide spectrum of disciplines. Choose two Spells from any class, including this one. A spell you choose must be of a level you can cast, as shown on the Bard table, or a cantrip.
The chosen Spells count as bard Spells for you and are included in the number in the Spells Known column of the Agent table.
You learn two additional Spells from any class at 14th level and again at 18th level.

Ability Score Improvement
: When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two Ability Scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Faction Feature
: You are promoted at 3rd level, grants you a new faction feature, and again at 6th and 14th level. At 20th level, you acquire the faction mastery feature.

# Factions

## Hmonqi Paw Lodge
The Hmonqi Paw Lodges originated as secretive revolutionary cells in the Banana Kingdoms. The lodges of the Banana Kingdom are largely suppressed or co-opted now. Despite this, the Tradelands have many lodges, which act mostly as social clubs and economic support networks for the Hmonqi diaspora. However, some conspiratorial lodges still plot the overthrow of the One True Monkey Kings.

### Abilities

Escape and Evasion Training
: You have undergone extensive training in climbing, running, swimming and jumping. You become proficient in the Athletics skill. You may use your Dexterity score modifier with your Athletics score intead of Strength.

Intrusion Training
: Gain proficiency with Stealth and Thieves Tools. If you are already proficient, you may double your proficiency.

Surveillance Training
: Gain proficiency with Perception and Investigation skills. If you are already proficient, you may double your proficiency.

Hmonqi Lodge Master
: You have become a master of the Hmonqi Paw Lodge. You gain several benefits:
: - You and your party may stay in any Hmonqi Lodge safehouse, free of charge
: - You may borrow up to 1,000 GP, at no interest for 1 month. You must pay 10% interest per month after that.
: - You may take any non-magical weapons or equipment needed from a lodge armory.
