---
layout: post
title:  "Cleric"
author: ali-bobby
categories: [ polychrome, classes ]
image: assets/images/classes/cleric.png
summary: "Those who pray"
---
{% include srd-warning.html %}

# Class Features
As a cleric, you gain the following class features.

## Hit Points
Hit Dice
: 1d8 per cleric level

Hit Points at 1st Level
: 8 + your Constitution modifier

Hit Points at Higher Levels
: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per cleric level after 1st

## Proficiencies
Armor
: Light armor, medium armor, shields

Weapons
: Simple weapons

Tools
: None

Saving Throws
: Wisdom, Charisma

Skills
: Choose two from History, Insight, Medicine, Persuasion, and Religion

## Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:

- (a) a mace or (b) a warhammer (if proficient)
- (a) scale mail, (b) leather armor, or (c) chain mail (if proficient)
- (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) any simple weapon
- (a) a priest’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
- A shield and a holy symbol


## Cleric Level Advancement

| Level | Proficiency Bonus |	Features                                                                |
|:-----:|:-----------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1st   |	+2                |	Spellcasting, Divine Domain	                                            |
| 2nd   |	+2                |	Channel Divinity (1/rest), Divine Domain feature	                      |
| 3rd   |	+2                |	–	                                                                      |
| 4th   |	+2                |	Ability Score Improvement	                                              |
| 5th   |	+3                |	Destroy Undead (CR 1/2)	                                                |
| 6th   |	+3                |	Channel Divinity (2/rest), Divine Domain feature	                      |
| 7th   |	+3                |	–	                                                                      |
| 8th   |	+3                |	Ability Score Improvement, Destroy Undead (CR 1), Divine Domain feature	|
| 9th   |	+4                |	–	                                                                      |
| 10th  |	+4                |	Divine Intervention	                                                    |
| 11th  |	+4                |	Destroy Undead (CR 2)	                                                  |
| 12th  |	+4                |	Ability Score Improvement	                                              |
| 13th  |	+5                |	–	                                                                      |
| 14th  |	+5                |	Destroy Undead (CR 3)	                                                  |
| 15th  |	+5                |	–	                                                                      |
| 16th  |	+5                |	Ability Score Improvement	                                              |
| 17th  |	+6                |	Destroy Undead (CR 4), Divine Domain feature	                          |
| 18th  |	+6                |	Channel Divinity (3/rest)	                                              |
| 19th  |	+6                |	Ability Score Improvement	                                              |
| 20th  |	+6                |	Divine Intervention improvement	                                        |

## Spell Slots per Level

| Cantrips Known  | 1st |	2nd |	3rd |	4th |	5th |	6th |	7th |	8th |	9th |
|:---------------:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| 3	              | 2	  | –   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 3	              | 3	  | –   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 3	              | 4	  | 2   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 4	              | 4	  | 3   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 4	              | 4	  | 3   |	2   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 4	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 4	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	1   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 4	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	2   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 4	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	1   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	–   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	–   |	–   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	1   |	–   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	1   |	–   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	1   |	1   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	1   |	1   |	–   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	1   |	1   |	1   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	3   |	1   |	1   |	1   |	1   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	1   |	1   |	1   |
| 5	              | 4	  | 3   |	3   |	3   |	3   |	2   |	2   |	1   |	1   |

## Spellcasting
As a conduit for divine power, you can cast cleric spells.

### Cantrips
At 1st level, you know three cantrips of your choice from the cleric spell list. You learn additional cleric cantrips of your choice at higher levels, as shown in the Cantrips Known column of the Cleric table.

### Preparing and Casting Spells
The Cleric table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these spells, you must expend a slot of the spell’s level or higher. You regain all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest.

You prepare the list of cleric spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the cleric spell list. When you do so, choose a number of cleric spells equal to your Wisdom modifier + your cleric level (minimum of one spell). The spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots.

For example, if you are a 3rd-level cleric, you have four 1st-level and two 2nd-level spell slots. With a Wisdom of 16, your list of prepared spells can include six spells of 1st or 2nd level, in any combination. If you prepare the 1st-level spell cure wounds, you can cast it using a 1st-level or 2nd-level slot. Casting the spell doesn’t remove it from your list of prepared spells.

You can change your list of prepared spells when you finish a long rest. Preparing a new list of cleric spells requires time spent in prayer and meditation: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

### Spellcasting Ability
Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for your cleric spells. The power of your spells comes from your devotion to your deity. You use your Wisdom whenever a cleric spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Wisdom modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a cleric spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.

Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier

Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier

### Ritual Casting
You can cast a cleric spell as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag and you have the spell prepared.

### Spellcasting Focus
You can use a holy symbol (see Equipment) as a spellcasting focus for your cleric spells.

## Divine Domain
Choose one domain related to your deity. Your chosen domain grants you domain spells and other features when you choose it at 1st level. It also grants you additional ways to use Channel Divinity when you gain that feature at 2nd level, and additional benefits at 6th, 8th, and 17th levels.

## Domain Spells
Each domain has a list of spells-its domain spells- that you gain at the cleric levels noted in the domain description. Once you gain a domain spell, you always have it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the number of spells you can prepare each day.

If you have a domain spell that doesn’t appear on the cleric spell list, the spell is nonetheless a cleric spell for you.

## Channel Divinity
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to channel divine energy directly from your deity, using that energy to fuel magical effects. You start with two such effects: Turn Undead and an effect determined by your domain. Some domains grant you additional effects as you advance in levels, as noted in the domain description.

When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which effect to create. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again.

Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your cleric spell save DC.

Beginning at 6th level, you can use your Channel Divinity twice between rests, and beginning at 18th level, you can use it three times between rests. When you finish a short or long rest, you regain your expended uses.

## Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

## Divine Intervention
Beginning at 10th level, you can call on your deity to intervene on your behalf when your need is great.

Imploring your deity’s aid requires you to use your action. Describe the assistance you seek, and roll percentile dice. If you roll a number equal to or lower than your cleric level, your deity intervenes. The GM chooses the nature of the intervention; the effect of any cleric spell or cleric domain spell would be appropriate.

If your deity intervenes, you can’t use this feature again for 7 days. Otherwise, you can use it again after you finish a long rest.

At 20th level, your call for intervention succeeds automatically, no roll required.

---

## Cleric Spells
### Cantrips (0 Level)
- Guidance
- Light
- Mending
- Resistance
- Sacred Flame
- Thaumaturgy
### 1st Level
- Bane
- Bless
- Command
- Create or Destroy Water
- Cure Wounds
- Detect Evil and Good
- Detect Magic
- Detect Poison and Disease
- Guiding Bolt
- Healing Word
- Inflict Wounds
- Protection from Evil and Good
- Purify Food and Drink
- Sanctuary
- Shield of Faith
### 2nd Level
- Aid
- Augury
- Blindness/Deafness
- Calm Emotions
- Continual Flame
- Enhance Ability
- Find Traps
- Gentle Repose
- Hold Person
- Lesser Restoration
- Locate Object
- Prayer of Healing
- Protection from Poison
- Silence
- Spiritual Weapon
- Warding Bond
- Zone of Truth
### 3rd Level
- Animate Dead
- Beacon of Hope
- Bestow Curse
- Clairvoyance
- Create Food and Water
- Daylight
- Dispel Magic
- Glyph of Warding
- Magic Circle
- Mass Healing Word
- Meld into Stone
- Protection from Energy
- Remove Curse
- Revivify
- Sending
- Speak with Dead
- Spirit Guardians
- Tongues
- Water Walk
### 4th Level
- Banishment
- Control Water
- Death Ward
- Divination
- Freedom of Movement
- Locate Creature
- Stone Shape
### 5th Level
- Commune Contagion
- Dispel Evil and Good
- Flame Strike
- Geas
- Greater Restoration
- Hallow
- Insect Plague
- Legend Lore
- Mass Cure Wounds
- Planar Binding
- Raise Dead
- Scrying
### 6th Level
- Blade Barrier
- Create Undead
- Find the Path
- Forbiddance
- Harm
- Heal
- Heroes’ Feast
- Planar Ally
- True Seeing
- Word of Recall
### 7th Level
- Conjure Celestial
- Divine Word
- Etherealness
- Fire Storm
- Plane Shift
- Regenerate
- Resurrection Symbol
### 8th Level
- Antimagic Field
- Control Weather
- Earthquake
- Holy Aura
- 9th Level
- Astral Projection
- Gate
- Mass Heal
- True Resurrection