---
layout: post
title:  "Priest"
author: ali-bobby
categories: [ polychrome, classes ]
image: assets/images/classes/priest.png
summary: "Repent & Repeat"
---



> Amidst a campsite's flickering firelight, the adventurers rested, nursing their wounds from a skirmish with the vicious Snackers. Kael, their Priest, quickly prepared a makeshift stone altar, placing upon it his sacred book of rites. He chanted softly, invoking the Mending Wounds ritual.
>
> Each member approached in turn. For the ranger, Kael traced symbols over deep bite marks, which sealed as he passed. The mage, drained from the fight, sipped from a chalice Kael offered, her strength visibly returning.
>
> The ritual's final words resonated through the camp, imbuing a palpable energy. The once weary group now stood rejuvenated, their grateful eyes on Kael. Under the emerging stars, the bond between them deepened, a testament to shared battles and the healing power of faith.


---

## **Priest**

### **Class Features**

As a Priest, you gain the following class features:

**Hit Points**
- **Hit Dice:** 1d8 per Priest level
- **Hit Points at 1st Level:** 8 + your Constitution modifier
- **Hit Points at Higher Levels:** 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per Priest level after 1st

**Proficiencies**
- **Armor:** Light armor
- **Weapons:** Simple weapons
- **Tools:** None
- **Saving Throws:** Wisdom, Charisma
- **Skills:** Choose two from History, Insight, Medicine, Persuasion, and Religion

**Equipment**
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
- *(a)* a mace or *(b)* a simple weapon
- *(a)* a priest's pack or *(b)* an explorer's pack
- A holy symbol

### **Abilities**

#### **Spellcasting**
From 1st level, your connection to the divine allows you to channel and cast spells.
- **Spell Slots and Spells Known:** The Priest's spellcasting table matches that of the Cleric.

#### **Ritual Casting**
Starting at 1st level, you can cast any priest ritual spell from their book of rites without having it prepared.

#### **Cult Practice**
At 1st level, you choose a Cult Practice that you adhere to. Your choice grants you features at 1st and then again at 3rd, 6th, 10th, 14th, and 17th levels.

#### **Spiritual Guidance**
Starting at 2nd level, once per long rest, you can grant an ally advantage on a single skill check or saving throw.

#### **Ability Score Improvement**
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As usual, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

#### **Divine Protection**
At 5th level, once per long rest, you can add your Priest level to another player's saving throw.

#### **Rite Mastery**
At 7th level, you can cast one ritual spell as a standard action once per long rest.

#### **Divine Insight**
Starting at 9th level, you can use your Spiritual Guidance twice per long rest.

#### **Greater Rite Mastery**
From 11th level, you can cast any ritual spell as a standard action.

#### **Sacred Preservation**
At 13th level, once per long rest, you can protect a creature from death, stabilizing them if they fall to 0 hit points.

#### **Divine Eminence**
At 15th level, you can cast a spell without expending a spell slot once per long rest.

#### **Cult Mastery**
By 18th level, you've achieved such a mastery over your Cult Practice that you always have advantage on Religion skill checks.

#### **Divine Apotheosis**
At 20th level, your connection to your deity or philosophy reaches its pinnacle, granting a permanent boon or transformation based on your Cult Practice.

---

### **Cult Practices**

Your commitment to your deity or philosophy is manifested through specific practices and beliefs. At 1st level, you decide on the specifics of your commitment and select a Cult Practice, which can include but is not limited to:


{% assign sorted_posts = site.posts | sort:'title' %}
{% for post in sorted_posts %}
{% if post.categories contains "polychrome" and post.categories contains "cult practice" %}


<a href="{{post.url}}">{{post.title}}</a>

{% endif %}
{% endfor %}

